#summary How to use Mobbler.
#labels Featured

== Sign up for Last.fm ==

First you will need a free Last.fm account.  Go [http://www.last.fm/join here] to sign up.

== Enter your details ==

The first time you start Mobbler you should be asked for your Last.fm username and password.  After that you can change your details by access the setting options in the menu or pressing the 8 key.

== Queuing Tracks ==

When Mobbler is running on your phone it will queue the tracks you listen to using the Nokia S60 Music Player.

== Online and Offline Modes ==

If you are in online mode, Mobbler will scrobble tracks played through the S60 Music Player.  You will also be able to listen to Last.fm radio stations which will also be scrobbled.

If you are in offline mode, tracks played though the S60 Music Player will be queued.  Those queued tracks will be submitted to Last.fm the next time you switch to online mode.

You can switch between online and offline mode using the Options menu.

== Starting Radio Stations ==

You can start a Last.fm radio station, using the *Start a new station* sub-menu.  _Please note that stating a station will stream mp3 data over your data connection.  It is probably best if you only do this over WIFI or if you have an unlimited data plan with your operator.  The makers of Mobbler cannot be held responsible for your phone bill._

If you are in offline mode you will be asked to go into online mode before you can start the radio station. 

== Radio Controls ==

  * The up button will tell Last.fm that you love the current track
  * The down button will tell Last.fm to ban the current radio track from playing on your radio stations again and automatically skip to the next track
  * The enter button stops radio station
  * The right button skips to the next radio station track
  * The left button (when a track is playing) lets you do things with the current track, like add to a playlist, share with a friend, see similar artists, see top albums, and so on.
  * Both the volume buttons and '`*`' and '#' can be used to adjust the volume 

== Check for Updates ==

You can check for updates to Mobbler through the *Check for updates* menu button.  If there is a new version of Mobbler you will be asked if you want to download it through your phone's browser.

== Export Queue to Log ==

If you want to avoid uploading your scrobbles to Last.fm using your phone's internet connection, and don't have wifi available, you can export the scrobble queue to a Rockbox log file. This file is saved at C:\Data\Mobbler\.scrobbler.log which you can then transfer to your PC and upload to using a [http://www.rockbox.org/twiki/bin/view/Main/LastFMLog uploader] (these may or may not work for you).

== Keypad shortcuts ==

 * 5 - Toggle scrobbling
 * 8 - Settings
 * 9 - Toggle large album art (3rd edition only)
 * `*` (and volume button) - Decrease volume
 * # (and volume button) - Increase volume

== Language Patches ==

Mobbler translations often come in after a a release is made, and non-English users have to wait a while until the next Mobbler release. Also, some people would like to have Mobbler running in a language other than that which their phone is in.

You can now install language patches for Mobbler so you may:

 # have Mobbler in any language, regardless of what language your phone is in, and
 # get langauge updates as soon as we receive them, without having to wait for the next Mobbler release.

Install the language you want from [http://code.google.com/p/mobbler/downloads/list?can=2&q=Type-Language&sort=summary here]. No need to remove the original Mobbler application, just restart it and it will use the new language. To change back, either install a new language or remove Mobbler Language using the Application Manager.


== Exit ==

If you exit Mobbler, using the *Exit* command in Mobbler's options menu, Mobbler will close and any tracks you listen to will not be queued or scrobbled with Last.fm.