#summary How to add a languages to Mobbler.
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

These are instructions for _developers_ how to add a new or update an existing language to Mobbler.

Instructions for _translators_ are [Language here].


= Add a new language =

 # Check the Enum and PKG lang-code from http://wiki.forum.nokia.com/index.php/TLanguage_enumeration
 # Name the file mobbler.lXX where XX is enum.
 # Make sure the file is encoded in UTF-8 without BOM, especially if it has "special" non-ASCII characters/accents.
 # Include mobbler.lXX in mobbler.loc.
 # Add the enum to the LANG list in mobbler.mmp.
 # Make sure it builds.
 # In mobbler.pkg and mobbler_signed.pkg:
  * Add the PKG lang-code; it must be in the same order as its corresponding enum. 
  * Also add an extra "Mobbler" entry in each of those two lines, and an extra "Series60ProductID" in those other two lines.
  * Add new mobbler_0xA0007648.rXX entries for both the resource file and language localisation file.
 # Check you can create a sisx file.
 # In languages.csv, add the enum, PKG lang-code, language name (use underscores instead of spaces), and ISO 639-1 language code.
 # Make a language patch: make sure EPOCROOT is set and run "languages 0.x.y" to make one for every language in languages.csv. (Tip: just include the new language in the csv to save time, but restore the full list later.)
 # Optionally check the patch installs and/or send the patch to the translator for testing and updating before releasing.
 # Commit the new file and modification to source control.
 # Edit the languages wiki page to include the new language.
 # Upload the language patch file using googlecode_upload_1.bat.
 # Tweet it!

= Update an existing language =

 # Merge the new translation into the existing one.
 # Make sure it builds.
 # Edit languages.csv to include only the new language and a newline (revert the file later).
 # Make a language patch: make sure EPOCROOT is set and run "languages 0.x.y". (Suggestion: Start from 0.x.0 for patches sent to translator for alpha testing, and start from 0.x.10 for publicly released patches, where x matches the corresponding Mobbler release.)
 # Optionally check the patch installs and/or send the patch to the translator for testing and updating before releasing.
 # Commit the new file and modification to source control.
 # Update the languages wiki page.
 # Upload the language patch file using googlecode_upload_1.bat.
 # Set the previous language patch to Deprecated.