#summary How to prepare SVGs.
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation

= Introduction =

SVGs such as those found in the [http://tango.freedesktop.org/ Tango Desktop Project] need to be modified before they can be used in S60.

According to the author of the [http://wiki.sukimashita.com/Tango_Symbian60_Theme Tango Symbian60 Theme]:

 The The basic issue here is that the phone's SVG implementation is based on the SVG Mobile 1.2 specification. Thus it is only able to interpret a specific subset of the SVG XML.

 For the Tango icons the main issue arises due to use of gradient stroke which SVG Mobile does not support.

 You can use the free SVG editor http://www.inkscape.org/ to edit those and convert the gradients to regular fill gradients or even simply make them have a plain color (people won't notice the difference on the screen).

 The display/rendering artifacts should be gone then.


= Instructions =

 # Open the SVG in a text editor and add an attribute viewBox="0 0 48 48" to the svg element. Once added, Inkscape retains it.
 # Open the SVG in Inkscape.
 # Save as "Plain SVG".
 # Give it a try in the emulator. If any parts don't show up, you will need to change gradient strokes to gradient fills or flat colours. (You may need to Object -> Ungroup.)
 # Right click -> Fill and Stroke, monkey about with the settings, save and try it out in emulator. 
 # I think it also doesn't like "ellipse" shapes, so try and replace those with "path" shapes.
 # When ready, File -> Vacuum Defs, will remove some unused guff to reduce the size by around 55%.
 # (Finally, you can also run it through an SVG to SVG-T converter to make them a bit smaller. TODO which converter and how?)

 

= Links =

 * [http://www.inkscape.org/ Inkscape SVG editor]
 * [http://tango.freedesktop.org/ Tango Desktop Project]
 * [http://wiki.sukimashita.com/Tango_Symbian60_Theme Tango Symbian60 Theme]
 * Issue 193: Use the Tango Icon Library for Mobbler graphics